# base draw image 






## Drawing Line

To draw a line, you need to pass starting and ending coordinates of line. We will create a black image and draw a blue line on it from top-left to bottom-right corners.

### Draw a diagonal blue line with thickness of 5 px

 `cv2.line(img,(0,0),(511,511),(255,0,0),5)`



<br>

## Drawing Rectangle

To draw a rectangle, you need top-left corner and bottom-right corner of rectangle. This time we will draw a green rectangle at the top-right corner of image.

​    ` cv2.rectangle(img,(384,0),(510,128),(0,255,0),3)`



<br>

## Drawing Circle

To draw a circle, you need its center coordinates and radius. We will draw a circle inside the rectangle drawn above.

​    `cv2.circle(img,(447,63), 63, (0,0,255), -1)`



<br>



## Drawing Ellipse

To draw the ellipse, we need to pass several arguments. One argument is the center location (x,y). Next argument is axes lengths (major axis length, minor axis length). angle is the angle of rotation of ellipse in anti-clockwise direction. startAngle and endAngle denotes the starting and ending of ellipse arc measured in clockwise direction from major axis. i.e. giving values 0 and 360 gives the full ellipse. For more details, check the documentation of **cv2.ellipse()**. Below example draws a half ellipse at the center of the image.

   ` cv2.ellipse(img,(256,256),(100,50),0,0,180,255,-1)`



<br>



## Drawing Polygon

To draw a polygon, first you need coordinates of vertices. Make those points into an array of shape ROWSx1x2 where ROWS are number of vertices and it should be of type int32. Here we draw a small polygon of with four vertices in yellow color.

  `pts = np.array([[10,5],[20,30],[70,20],[50,10]], np.int32)`

  `pts = pts.reshape((-1,1,2))`

 `cv2.polylines(img,[pts],True,(0,255,255))`